Warnings on Admin Page
======================

Your ownCloud server has a built-in configuration checker, and it
reports its findings at the top of your Admin page. These are some of
the warnings you might see, and what to do about them.

image:/owncloud-docs/_images/security-setup-warning-1.png[image]

[[cache-warnings]]
Cache Warnings
--------------

``No memory cache has been configured. To enhance your performance
please configure a memcache if available.'' ownCloud supports multiple
php caching extentions:

* APCu
* Memcached
* Redis (minimum required PHP extension version: 2.2.6)

You will see this warning if you have no caches installed and enabled,
or if your cache does not have the required minimum version installed;
older versions are disabled because of performance problems.

If you see ``__\{Cache}__ below version _\{Version}_ is installed. for
stability and performance reasons we recommend to update to a newer
_\{Cache}_ version'' then you need to upgrade, or, if youâ€™re not using
it, remove it.

You are not required to use any caches, but caches improve server
performance. See caching_configuration.

[[transactional-file-locking-is-disabled]]
Transactional file locking is disabled
--------------------------------------

``Transactional file locking is disabled, this might lead to issues with
race conditions.''

Please see
Transactional File Locking <configuring_transactional_file_locking_label>
for how to correctly configure your environment for transactional file
locking.

[[you-are-accessing-this-site-via-http]]
You are accessing this site via HTTP
------------------------------------

``You are accessing this site via HTTP. We strongly suggest you
configure your server to require using HTTPS instead.'' Please take this
warning seriously; using HTTPS is a fundamental security measure. You
must configure your Web server to support it, and then there are some
settings in the *Security* section of your ownCloud Admin page to
enable. The following pages describe how to enable HTTPS on the Apache
and Nginx Web servers.

enabling_ssl_label (on Apache)

use_https_label

[[the-test-with-getenvpath-only-returns-an-empty-response]]
The test with getenv("PATH") only returns an empty response
-----------------------------------------------------------

Some environments are not passing a valid PATH variable to ownCloud. The
php_fpm_tips_label provides the information about how to configure your
environment.

[[the-strict-transport-security-http-header-is-not-configured]]
The ``Strict-Transport-Security'' HTTP header is not configured
---------------------------------------------------------------

``The''Strict-Transport-Security" HTTP header is not configured to least
``15552000'' seconds. For enhanced security we recommend enabling HSTS
as described in our security tips."

The HSTS header needs to be configured within your Web server by
following the enable-hsts-label documentation

[[devurandom-is-not-readable-by-php]]
/dev/urandom is not readable by PHP
-----------------------------------

``/dev/urandom is not readable by PHP which is highly discouraged for
security reasons. Further information can be found in our
documentation.''

This message is another one which needs to be taken seriously. Please
have a look at the dev-urandom-label documentation.

[[your-web-server-is-not-yet-set-up-properly-to-allow-file-synchronization]]
Your Web server is not yet set up properly to allow file synchronization
------------------------------------------------------------------------

``Your web server is not yet set up properly to allow file
synchronization because the WebDAV interface seems to be broken.''

At the ownCloud community forums a larger
https://central.owncloud.org/t/how-to-fix-caldav-carddav-webdav-problems/852[FAQ]
is maintained containing various information and debugging hints.

[[outdated-nss-openssl-version]]
Outdated NSS / OpenSSL version
------------------------------

``cURL is using an outdated OpenSSL version (OpenSSL/$version). Please
update your operating system or features such as installing and updating
apps via the ownCloud Marketplace or Federated Cloud Sharing will not
work reliably.''

``cURL is using an outdated NSS version (NSS/$version). Please update
your operating system or features such as installing and updating apps
via the ownCloud Marketplace or Federated Cloud Sharing will not work
reliably.''

There are known bugs in older OpenSSL and NSS versions leading to
misbehaviour in combination with remote hosts using SNI. A technology
used by most of the HTTPS websites. To ensure that ownCloud will work
properly you need to update OpenSSL to at least 1.0.2b or 1.0.1d. For
NSS the patch version depends on your distribution and an heuristic is
running the test which actually reproduces the bug. There are
distributions such as RHEL/CentOS which have this backport still
https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1241172[pending].

[[your-web-server-is-not-set-up-properly-to-resolve-.well-knowncaldav-or-.well-knowncarddav]]
Your Web server is not set up properly to resolve /.well-known/caldav/
or /.well-known/carddav/
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Both URLs need to be correctly redirected to the DAV endpoint of
ownCloud. Please refer to service-discovery-label for more info.

[[some-files-have-not-passed-the-integrity-check]]
Some files have not passed the integrity check
----------------------------------------------

Please refer to the code_signing_fix_warning_label documentation how to
debug this issue.

[[your-database-does-not-run-with-read-commited-transaction-isolation-level]]
Your database does not run with ``READ COMMITED'' transaction isolation
level
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

``Your database does not run with''READ COMMITED" transaction isolation
level. This can cause problems when multiple actions are executed in
parallel."

Please refer to db-transaction-label how to configure your database for
this requirement.
