External Storage Authentication mechanisms
==========================================

ownCloud storage backends accept one or more authentication schemes such
as passwords, OAuth, or token-based, to name a few examples. Each
authentication scheme may be implemented by multiple authentication
mechanisms. Different mechanisms require different configuration
parameters, depending on their behaviour.

[[special-mechanisms]]
Special Mechanisms
------------------

The *None* authentication mechanism requires no configuration
parameters, and is used when a backend requires no authentication.

The *Built-in* authentication mechanism itself requires no configuration
parameters, but is used as a placeholder for legacy storages that have
not been migrated to the new system and do not take advantage of generic
authentication mechanisms. The authentication parameters are provided
directly by the backend.

[[password-based-mechanisms]]
Password-based Mechanisms
-------------------------

The *Username and password* mechanism requires a manually-defined
username and password. These get passed directly to the backend.

The *Log-in credentials, save in session* mechanism uses the ownCloud
login credentials of the user to connect to the storage. These are not
stored anywhere on the server, but rather in the user session, giving
increased security. The drawbacks are that sharing is disabled when this
mechanism is in use, as ownCloud has no access to the storage
credentials, and background file scanning does not work.

There is a workaround that allows background file scanning when using
*Log-in credentials, save in session*, and that is using Ajax cron mode.
(See ../../server/background_jobs_configuration.) Be aware that the Ajax
cron mode is triggered by browsing the ownCloud Web GUI.

[[public-key-mechanisms]]
Public-key Mechanisms
---------------------

Currently only the RSA mechanism is implemented, where a public/private
keypair is generated by ownCloud and the public half shown in the GUI.
The keys are generated in the SSH format, and are currently 1024 bits in
length. Keys can be regenerated with a button in the GUI.

image:/owncloud-docs/_images/auth_rsa.png[image]

[[oauth]]
OAuth
-----

OAuth 1.0 and OAuth 2.0 are both implemented, but currently limited to
the Dropbox and Google Drive backends respectively. These mechanisms
require additional configuration at the service provider, where an app
ID and app secret are provided and then entered into ownCloud. Then
ownCloud can perform an authentication request, establishing the storage
connection.

image:/owncloud-docs/_images/dropbox-oc.png[image]

If ownCloud clientâ€™s are unable to connect to your ownCloud server,
check that the bearer authorization header
is not being stripped out <bearer_auth_header_problem_label>.
