Google Drive
============

ownCloud uses OAuth 2.0 to connect to Google Drive. This requires
configuration through Google to get an app ID and app secret, as
ownCloud registers itself as an app.

All applications that access a Google API must be registered through the
https://console.developers.google.com/[Google Cloud Console]. Follow
along carefully because the Google interface is a bit of a maze and it’s
easy to get lost.

If you already have a Google account, such as Groups, Drive, or Mail,
you can use your existing login to log into the Google Cloud Console.
After logging in click the *Create Project* button.

image:/owncloud-docs/_images/google_drive/001.png[image]

image:/owncloud-docs/_images/google_drive/002.png[image]

Give your project a name, and either accept the default *Project ID* or
create your own, then click the *Create* button. For this example a
random name was chosen, ``owncloud-04-27''. However, feel free to choose
your own name.

image:/owncloud-docs/_images/google_drive/003.png[image]

After your project is created, click on the notifications bell and
select your project.

image:/owncloud-docs/_images/google_drive/004.png[image]

Go to Api overview to select google’s API.

image:/owncloud-docs/_images/google_drive/005.png[image]

image:/owncloud-docs/_images/google_drive/006.png[image]

image:/owncloud-docs/_images/google_drive/007.png[image]

Now you must create your credentials.

image:/owncloud-docs/_images/google_drive/008.png[image]

First, select ``Web Browser'' and ``User data''.

image:/owncloud-docs/_images/google_drive/009.png[image]

The next screen that opens is *Create OAuth 2.0 Client ID*. Enter your
app name.

image:/owncloud-docs/_images/google_drive/010.png[image]

*Authorized JavaScript Origins* is your root domain, for example
`https://example.com`, without a trailing slash. Examples:

....
https://example.com
http://example.com
IP/owncloud  
....

You need to configure *Authorized Redirect URIs*, and they must be in
this form:

....
https://example.com/owncloud/index.php/settings/admin?sectionid=storage
https://example.com/owncloud/index.php/settings/personal?sectionid=storage
....

If you are configuring storage as an Administrator - choose the admin
URI, if you are a user and configuring a storage - pick the personal
URI.

If you are not sure what your exact URIs are - here is a quick guide to
figure it out.

*Authorized JavaScript Origins*

This is just the address you access your ownCloud server at, where you
see the login screen.

image:/owncloud-docs/_images/google_drive/011.png[image]

*Authorized Redirect URIs*

If you have not already enabled the Google Drive storage, here is how
you do it:

image:/owncloud-docs/_images/google_drive/011.png[image]

image:/owncloud-docs/_images/google_drive/012.png[image]

image:/owncloud-docs/_images/google_drive/013.png[image]

image:/owncloud-docs/_images/google_drive/014.png[image]

image:/owncloud-docs/_images/google_drive/015.png[image]

image:/owncloud-docs/_images/google_drive/016.png[image]

Here is the correct result:

image:/owncloud-docs/_images/google_drive/017.png[image]

Now we have to create a consent screen. This is the information in the
screen Google shows you when you connect your new Google app to ownCloud
the first time.

image:/owncloud-docs/_images/google_drive/018.png[image]

Now you can download the credentials as a JSON file.

image:/owncloud-docs/_images/google_drive/019.png[image]

You can see either open this file with the editor of your choice
(SublimeText for example), or you can put in in your web browser. This
is when you do the later:

image:/owncloud-docs/_images/google_drive/020.png[image]

Enter the Client ID and Client Secret in the app and press *Grant
Access*.

Now you have everything you need to mount your Google Drive in ownCloud.

Your consent page appears when ownCloud makes a successful connection.

Click *Allow*.

image:/owncloud-docs/_images/google_drive/021.png[image]

When you see the green light confirming a successful connection you’re
finished.

image:/owncloud-docs/_images/google_drive/022.png[image]

image:/owncloud-docs/_images/google_drive/023.png[image]

See ../external_storage_configuration_gui for additional mount options
and information.

See auth_mechanisms for more information on authentication schemes.
603026686136-qnv9ooocacrkrh1vs0cht83eprgm2sbb.apps.googleusercontent.com
