Custom Theming ownCloud
=======================

ownBrander is an ownCloud build service that is exclusive to Enterprise
edition customers for creating branded ownCloud clients and servers. You
may brand your ownCloud server using ownBrander to easily build
https://doc.owncloud.org/server/latest/developer_manual/core/theming.html[a
custom theme], using your own logo and artwork. ownCloud has always been
theme-able, but it was a manual process that required editing CSS and
PHP files. Now Enterprise customers can use ownBrander, which provides
an easy graphical wizard.

You need an Enterprise subscription, an account on
https://customer.owncloud.com/owncloud[Customer.owncloud.com], and the
ownBrander app enabled on your account. When you complete the steps in
the wizard the ownBrander service builds your new branded theme, and in
24-48 hours you’ll see it in your account.

image:/owncloud-docs/_images/ownbrander-1.png[image]

When you open the ownBrander app, go to the Web tab. You will see an
introduction and the wizard, which starts with uploading your logo. You
will need a number of images in specific sizes and formats, and the
wizard tells you what you need. Example images are on the right, and you
can click to enlarge them.

image:/owncloud-docs/_images/webbrander-1.png[image]

If you see errors when you upload SVG files, such as ``Incorrect
extension.File type image/svg+xml is not correct'', ``This SVG is
invalid'', or ``Error uploading file: Incorrect size'', try opening the
file in https://inkscape.org/en/[Inkscape] then save as ``Plain SVG''
and upload your SVG image again.

The wizard has two sections. The first section contains all the required
elements: logos and other artwork, colors, naming, and your enterprise
URL. The Suggested section contains optional items such as additional
logo placements and custom URLs.

When you are finished, click the *Generate Web Server* button. If you
want to change anything, go ahead and change it and click the *Generate
Web Server* button. This will override your previous version, if it has
not been created yet.In 24-48 hours you’ll find your new branded theme
in the *Web* folder in your
https://customer.owncloud.com/owncloud[Customer.owncloud.com] account.

Inside the *Web* folder you’ll find a *themes* folder. Copy this to your
`owncloud/themes` directory. You may name your *themes* folder anything
you want, for example `myBrandedTheme`. Then configure your ownCloud
server to use your branded theme by entering it in your `config.php`
file:

....
"theme" => "myBrandedTheme"
....

If anything goes wrong with your new theme, comment out this line to
re-enable the default theme until you fix your branded theme. The
branded theme follows the same file structure as the default theme, and
you may further customize it by editing the source files.

Always edit only your custom theme files. Never edit the default theme
files.
