Rest API
========

[cols=",,",options="header",]
|=================================================================
|Request Path |Method |Content Type
|`/ocs/v1.php/cloud/capabilities?format=json` |`GET` |`text/plain`
|=================================================================

To retrieve a list of your ownCloud server’s available capabilities, you
need to make an authenticated `GET` request, as in the example below.

....
curl --silent -u admin:admin \
  'http://localhost/ocs/v1.php/cloud/capabilities?format=json' | json_pp
....

The example uses
http://search.cpan.org/~makamaka/JSON-PP-2.27103/bin/json_pp[json_pp] to
make the response easier to read, and omits some content for the sake of
brevity.

This will return a JSON response, similar to the example below, along
with a status of: `HTTP/1.1 200 OK`.

[source,json]
----
{
   "ocs" : {
      "data" : {
         "capabilities" : {
            "notifications" : {
               "ocs-endpoints" : [
                  "list",
                  "get",
                  "delete"
               ]
            },
            "files" : {
               "blacklisted_files" : [
                  ".htaccess"
               ],
               "bigfilechunking" : true,
               "privateLinks" : true,
               "undelete" : true,
               "versioning" : true
            },
            "checksums" : {
               "preferredUploadType" : "SHA1",
               "supportedTypes" : [
                  "SHA1"
               ]
            },
            "files_sharing" : {
               "default_permissions" : 31,
               "user" : {
                  "send_mail" : false
               },
               "federation" : {
                  "incoming" : true,
                  "outgoing" : true
               },
               "resharing" : true,
               "user_enumeration" : {
                  "enabled" : true,
                  "group_members_only" : false
               },
               "api_enabled" : true,
               "group_sharing" : true,
               "share_with_group_members_only" : true,
               "public" : {
                  "enabled" : true,
                  "password" : {
                     "enforced" : false
                  },
                  "multiple" : true,
                  "social_share" : true,
                  "send_mail" : false,
                  "upload" : true,
                  "expire_date" : {
                     "enabled" : false
                  },
                  "supports_upload_only" : true
               }
            },
            "dav" : {
               "chunking" : "1.0"
            },
            "core" : {
               "webdav-root" : "remote.php/webdav",
               "status" : {
                  "edition" : "Community",
                  "installed" : "true",
                  "needsDbUpgrade" : "false",
                  "versionstring" : "10.0.3",
                  "productname" : "ownCloud",
                  "maintenance" : "false",
                  "version" : "10.0.3.3"
               },
               "pollinterval" : 60
            }
         }
      }
   }
}
----

In the example, in the `capabilities` element, you can see that the
server lists six capabilities, along with their settings, sub-settings,
and their values.

[[core]]
Core
----

Stored under the `core` capabilities element, this returns the server’s
core status settings, the interval to poll for server side changes, and
it’s WebDAV API root.

[[checksums]]
Checksums
---------

Stored under the `checksums` capabilities element, this returns the
server’s supported checksum types, and preferred upload checksum type.

[[files]]
Files
-----

Stored under the `files` capabilities element, this returns the server’s
support for big file chunking, file versioning, its ability to undelete
files, and the list of files that are currently blacklisted.

[[files-sharing]]
Files Sharing
-------------

Stored under the `files_sharing` capabilities element, this returns the
server’s support for file sharing, re-sharing (by users and groups),
federated file support, and public link shares (as well as whether
passwords and expiry dates are enforced), and also whether the sharing
API’s enabled.

[[notifications]]
Notifications
-------------

Stored under the `notifications` capabilities element, this returns what
the server sends notifications for.

[[webdav]]
WebDAV
------

Stored under the `dav` capabilities element, this returns the server’s
WebDAV API support.

Other apps add detail information to the capabilities, to indicate the
availability of certain features, for example notifications.
