==================================
Create Certificate Signing Request
==================================

Create a `.certSigningRequest` (CSR) file on your Mac, using Keychain Access. 
Open Finder, and then open Keychain Access from the Utilities folder.
    
.. figure:: ../images/mac-1.png
   :scale: 60%
   
   *click to enlarge*

Next, open **Keychain Access > Certificate Assistant > Request a Certificate 
From a Certificate Authority**.
      
.. figure:: ../images/mac-2.png
   :scale: 60%
   
   *click to enlarge*
      
Enter the email address that you use in your Apple developer account, and enter 
a common name. The common name can be anything you want, for example a helpful 
descriptive name like "ios-acme". Check **Saved to disk** and **Let me specify 
key pair information**, then click **Continue**.

.. figure:: ../images/mac-3.png      
      
Give your CSR a helpful descriptive name, such as 
**ios-csr.certSigningRequest**, and choose the location to save it on your hard 
drive, then click **Save**.

.. figure:: ../images/mac-4.png 
    
In the next window, set the **Key Size** value to **2048 bits** and 
**Algorithm** to **RSA**, and click **Continue**. This will create and save 
your certSigningRequest file (CSR) to your hard drive. 
      
.. figure:: ../images/mac-5.png

In the next screen your certificate creation is verified, and you can click a 
button to view it, or click **Done** to go to the next step.

.. figure:: ../images/mac-6.png      
    
You also get a corresponding public and private key pair, which you can see in 
the **Login > Keys** section.
      
.. figure:: ../images/mac-7.png        

Now login to the **Member Center** on `<https://developer.apple.com/>`_. 
Click **Certificates, Identifiers, & Profiles**.

.. figure:: ../images/cert-1.png
   :scale: 60%
   
   *click to enlarge*
    
Then click **iOS Apps > Certificates**.

.. figure:: ../images/cert-2.png

Next, click the add button (the little plus sign) in the top right corner of 
the 
**iOS Certificate** page.

.. figure:: ../images/cert-3.png
   :scale: 60%
   
   *click to enlarge*

Under "What type of certificate do you need?" check **App Store and Ad Hoc**, 
then click the **Continue** button at the bottom of the page.

.. figure:: ../images/cert-4.png
   :scale: 60%
   
   *click to enlarge*

The next screen, **About Creating a Certificate Signing Request (CSR)** has 
information about creating a CSR in Keychain Access. You already did this, so 
go to the next screen. "Add iOS Certificate", to upload the CSR you already 
created, then click the **Generate** button.

.. figure:: ../images/cert-5.png
   :scale: 60%
   
   *click to enlarge*
  
Your new certificate is named **ios_distribution.cer**. Download it to your 
Mac; 
then find it and double-click on it to install it properly in Keychain.

.. figure:: ../images/cert-6.png
   :scale: 80%
   
   *click to enlarge*
  
After installing it, you should see it stored with its corresponding private 
key in Keychain.

.. figure:: ../images/cert-7.png
   :scale: 80%
   
   *click to enlarge*
   
Remember to make backups of your keys and certificates and keep them in a safe 
place.
